2K11 ME 505 Industrial Management 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week Exam: 3 Hrs 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Exam Marks: 100 

UNIT I 

1. Introduction: Brief history of management movement, contribution by pioneers, functions and principles of Management. 4 

2. Organization: Principles of organization, types of organization, developments in organization, system approach to organization, management of change, management of conflict, MBO, Management by exception. 4 

3. Industrial Ownership: Types of ownership, methods of raising capital, incorporation of Joint Stock Company. 4 

4. Personnel Management: Function of personnel management recruitment, selection and training wages and salary administration, incentive wage payment. 4 

5. Industrial Psychology and Human Relation: Motivation, theories of human motivation, Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, group dynamics, theory x and y, Hawthorne experiments. 4 

UNIT II 

6. Industrial Relations: Trade union movement in India, machinery for settlement of disputes, handling of individual grievances, work of ILO. 4 

7. Factory Legislation in India: Important provision of factories act, Payment of wages Act, Workmen’s compensation Act, ESI Act, Environmental regulations. 4 

8. Industrial Safety: Safety devices, duties of safety engineer, Tracking and prevention of accidents, occupational diseases. 4 

9. Work Study: Introduction, Work-study procedures Human Considerations In work study concepts of work content, work study as a tool to improve productivity. 4 

10. Method Study: Objectives, steps in method study recording techniques, micro motion study, and principal of motion economy. 4 

11. Work Measurement: Objectives, techniques of work measurement, time study equipment, computation of standard time, work sampling predetermined motion time analysis. 4 

UNIT III 

12. Value Engineering: Definition, value analysis steps in value analysis principal of value analysis. 4 

13. Purchasing: Functions and procedure. 4 

14. Sales Management: Market research, pricing, sales promotion and distribution. 4 

Books for Reference: 

1. Principle of Management - Koontz and O’Donnel 

2. Modern Production Management - Buffa 

3. Personnel Administration - Pogors and Mayers 

4. Management of Organizational Behaviour - Hersey and Blanchard 

5. Industrial Relations in India - K. Subramanaian. 

6. Management - Stonel / Freemen / Gilbert 

7. Industrial Engineering and production Management by Telsang 

Scheme of Examination: 

Examiners are to set Three questions from each of Unit-I and Unit-II and Two questions from Unit-III. Students 

to answer Five full questions choosing Two from Unit-I and Unit-II One from Unit-III.