2K11CE704 TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING - III 

Hours / Week: 4 

Exam: 3 Hours 

Total: 60 hours 

Class Marks: 25 

Max Marks: 100 

PART –A: RAILWAY ENGINEERING 1. Railway Track: Cross Section, gauges, wheel and axle arrangement, Rails- material strength, length, creep, wear, rail joints, welding, failure of rails. Sleepers - requirements, types and relative merits; sleeper density and spacing. Track fittings, fixtures at rail joints; fixtures for FF rails on different types of sleeper; Ballast – objects, requirements and types, formation - functions and typical sections, soil improvements measures.10 Hrs.

 2. Stresses and resistance: Types of traction, requirements of track, track modulus stresses in rails, sleepers, ballast and formation resistance to traction, hauling capacity and power of engines, problems on above.6 Hrs.

 3. Alignment and Geometric design: Requirements of railway alignment, surveys, cross section of track, Design of horizontal curves, radius, superelevation, cant deficiency, maximum speed, transition curve: widening of gauges at curves. Gradients and grade compensation: vertical curves, problems.10 Hrs.

 4. Points and Crossings: Simple turn out, detail at points and crossings, design methods for simple turn out, cross over and diamond crossing, problems - 6 Hrs.

 5. Construction and Maintenance: Construction of railway track, Drainage system for railway track.4 Hrs.

 

PART –B: TUNNEL ENGINEERING 

6. Introduction: Objects of tunneling, tunneling surveying and alignment,transferring of centre line and grade of tunnel. Tunnel cross section –size and shape. - 4 Hrs. 

7. Tunnel and shaft: Construction, Tunnel Driving, Methods of tunneling in soils and soft rocks; tunneling inhard rocks –different methods.- 4 Hrs. 

8.Tunnel lining: Tunnel safety measures, tunnel ventilation, lighting and drainage.- 4 Hrs. 

PART –C: HARBOUR ENGINEERING 

9.Introduction: Classification of harbours, road steads, requirements and general principles of layout and design.- 2 Hrs. 

10.Natural Phenomena: Wave generation, Characteristics, effects of wave action in harbour structures, evaluation of wave pressure on harbour structure problems, tide causes and effects on harbours.4 Hrs. 

11.Break Waters: Classification forces, design factors, Construction methods and protective measures, problems.4 Hrs. 

12. Quays, Wharves: transit sheds, ware houses and docks - 2 Hrs. 

Question Paper Pattern: 

1. Part A –Railway Engineering, five questions are to be set out which three questions are to be answered 

2. Part B –Tunnel Engineering, Two questions are to be set and one question to be answered 

3. Part C –Harbour Engineering, Two questions are to be set out of which one question is to be answered 

Reference Books:

 1. K.F. Antia, Railway Track, New Book Co. (P) Ltd.

 2. M.M. Agarwal, `Indian Railway Track’, Prabha an

 3. Saxena and Arora, Dhanpat`RailwayandSons (textEngineering’,book)

 4. IRS Track Manual, Research Design and Standards Organisations, Ministry of Railways

 5. R. Srinivasan, `Harbour, Dock and Tunnel Engg’,

 6. Aioznzo Def. Quinn, `Design and construction of ports and Marine Structures’

 7. Saxena, ` Tunnel Engineering’, Dhanpat Rai and

 8. Richards and Mayo, `Practical Tunnel Driving’

