2KEC803 – OPERTATION RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT 

PART – A 

1.INTODUCTION 
Introduction, Overview of OR modelling approach, introduction to linear Programming, graphical and simple’s method. Big M method, concept of slack and artificial variables. Duality theory principles. Problems. -10hrs 

2.LPP 
Special types of LPP, Transportation and Assignment problems [hoth balanced and unbalanced types]. Finding the initial solution by N-W corner rule and Vogel’s approximation method [VAM technique]. Finding the optimal solution by stepping stone method and method of multipliers for transportation problems and Hungarian method for assignment problems. Travelling salesman problem. - 8hrs 

3.CPM AND PERT 
Networks in management, finding the critical path and the various times and floats for project, Finding the expected duration of a project, Critical path and probability estimation for a project. -6hrs 

4.QUEUING THEORY AND GAMES 
Block diagram of a queuing system, Single server model with finite and infinite q- length, Solution of two-person zero sum game by Dominance, Mini-Max criteria, concept of saddle point , solution of games by graphical method. -6hrs 


PART – B 

5.MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING 
Introduction, Need for managers, what managers do? Need for organization, management –is it an art or science? Need for planning, its premisers, concept of stragic planning and MBO. Types of Plans. -12hrs 

6.ORGANIZING AND LEADING 
Types of organizing, Depigmentation, span of control, need for depart mentation. Types of leaders, Traits of leaders, Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, Ohio university leadership theory, need for leaders. -12hrs 

7.CONTOLLING 
Controlling –why control? Types of Control, Managerial and Bureaucratic control. Designing effective control systems. -6hrs 

REFRENCE 
1.Operation research - Hamdy .H. Taha 8th edition Pearson education. 
2.Introduction to Operations research – Hiller and Leibermann, TMH. 
3.Principles of Management – koontz and weirich, TMH. 
4.Introduction to Management science – Anderson, Sweeny, Williams Thomson learning.