
 
 2K11SC1101 ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY 
 (Common to all branches except B.Arch) 
 Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 Max Marks: 100 1. Solid State Chemistry/ Metallic Solids
 Bonding in solids: Ionic, covalent, metallic and molecular solids. Band Theory of solids: Molecular orbital theory, linear combination of atomic orbitals, bonding and anti –bonding orbitals with H and He as examples, extension of band theory to metals, semiconductors and insulators. Semiconductors: Intrinsic and extrinsic –p and n –types, stoichiometric semiconducting compounds, numerical problems. 8 hrs. 
 2. METAL FINISHING
 Polarisation, decomposition potential and overvoltage, Technological importance of metal finishing.Effect of plating variables on electrodeposits.Electroplating techniques –methods of electroplating, surface preparation, plating of Cr. Electroless plating of copper for PCB.7 hrs. 
 3. Battery technology: Battery-their importance, classification. Cell characteristic, cell reactions and performance of primary batteries-Zn-MnO2, Secondary batteries –working principle, cell reactions and performance of Pb-acid battery, Ni-Cd battery, Modern batteries –Zn –air battery, Li-MnO2 battery. Fuel cells –definition, classification, advantages and limitations. Construction and cell reactions of H2-O2 fuel cell and methanol –oxygen fuel cell. 7 hrs. 
 4. Corrosion Engineering: Metallic corrosion-definition, electrochemical theory of corrosion, Forms of corrosion-differential metal corrosion, differential aeration corrosion –pitting corrosion, waterline corrosion, stress corrosion. Factors affecting the rate of corrosion. Corrosion control –surface coatings, inorganic coatings- phosphating, anodizing, organic coatings –paints and enamels. Metal coatings –anodic metal coatings –galvanizing.Cathodic metal coatings –tinning.Corrosion inhibitors.Cathodic and anodic protection.7 hrs. 
 5. High Polymers: Definitions –Natural and synthetic polymers, mechanism of addition polymerization (free radical mechanism), degree of polymerization, glass transition temperature. Addition and condensation polymers. Resins and plastics : Differences between resins and plastics, thermoplastics and thermosetting plastics –manufacture, properties and applications of HDPE and LDPE, polystyrene, phenol - formaldehyde, Teflon, polymethylmethacrylates, polyurethanes and polycarbonates. Elastomers: Deficiencies of natural rubber, vulcanizations, advantages of synthetic rubber. Manufacture and uses of Neoprene and Buna-S. Adhesives: Manufacture and applications of epoxy resins. 8 hrs. 
 6. Conducting Polymers and fullerenes: Conducting Polymers: Definition, examples –PA, PPP, PPY and others, differences between conducting polymers and conventional conductors, doping –oxidation reductive, protonic acid doping, mechanism of conduction –formation of soliton, polaron and bipolar mechanisms. Fullerenes: Structure of C60, preparation, reactions; Friedal Crafts reaction, addition halogenations. 8 hrs. 
 7. GREEN CHEMISTRY: Introduction, Principles, Atom economy : Concept, AE in oxidation of benzene and butane, synthesis of aldrin by Diels –Alder reaction; Waste : Production and Prevention, E-factor, synthesis of ibuprofen; Water as a reaction solvent : Concept and Synthesis of indole, reduction reactions; Microwave Irradiation in Organic synthesis : concept, advantages, synthesis of esters, oxidation reactions, amination of ketones; Ionic liquids : examples, concept, synthesis of 2 –phenylacrylic acid; Biocatalysis : concept, advantages, synthesis of 6 - aminopenicillanic acid; Synthesis of vitamin C. 8 hrs. 
 8. Nonomaterials: Introduction and definition of nanoparticles and nanomaterials, electronic structure, electronic band theory. Preparation of nanoscale materials: Precipitation, mechanical milling, chemical vapor deposition and sputtering. Fullerene: Nature of carobn bond, Discovery of C60, Synthesis of C60, Structure of C60, Alkali doped. 7 hrs. 
 
 Question paper pattern: 
 It shall consists of 14 questions of 10 marks each (with sub divisions A and B with 6 and 4 marks) out of which 10 questions have to be answered (5 questions from each PART). While setting the question paper, 7 questions in PART-A and 7 questions in PART B have to be set. For PART A, questions should be drawn from the chapters 1-4 (Electronic structure of solids, metal finishing, Battery technology and corrosion Engineering) and for PART B, questions should be drawn from the Chapters 5-8 (High polymers, conducting polymers and fullerenes, Green Chemistry and Nanomaterials) 
 
 
 Reference Books: 
 1. Solid State Chemistry and its applications by A. R West, John Wiley , 1987 
 2. Engineering Chemistry by P C Jain and Monica Jain, Dhanpatrai Publishing Co. Ltd. 
 3. Chemistry in Engineering and Technology Vol. 1 and Vol. 2 by J. C Kuriacose and J. Rajaram, Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company Ltd. 
 4. Chemistry of Advanced Materials by C.N. R. Rao, Blackwell Scientific Publications. 
 5. Solid State Chemistry Compounds by A. K. Cheethan and P. Day, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1992. 
 6. An introduction to electrochemistry by Glasstone, East-West Press Pvt. Ltd, 1985. 
 7. Chemical and Electrochemical Energy Systems by R. Narayan and B. Viswanathan, University Press, 1998. 
 8. Text book of Polymer science by F. W. Billmeyer, Jr., John Wiley and Sons, 1994. 
 9. Engineering Chemistry by R. Gopalan, D. Venkappayya and Nagarajan, Vikas Publishing House Pvt. Ltd, 1999. 
 10. Green Chemistry: An Introductory Text by Mike Lancaster, Royal Society of Chemistry, 2002. 
 11. Green Chemistry Environment Friendly Alternatives by RashmiSanghi and M. M. Srivastava, Narosa Publishing House, 2003. 
