
 
 2K11SP1101 ENGINEERING PHYSICS 
 (Common to all branches except B.Arch) 
 Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 Max Marks: 100 
 
 PART –A 
 1. Physics of Vibrations: Free oscillations–differential equation and solution; Damped vibrations–differential equation and solution; critical, over and under damping; analogy with electrical circuits; Forced vibrations – differential equation and solution; amplitude and velocity resonance; sharpness of resonance and quality factor; LCR resonance . 6 hrs. 
 2. Elasticity : Statement of Hooke’s law; Elastic moduli; torsion of cylinder; expression for couple per unit twist; bending of beams; expression for bending moment; theory of single cantilever; 
 6 hrs. 3. Free electron theory of metals: Classical free electron theory for electrical conduction in metals; expression for drift velocity and electrical conductivity; expression for thermal conductivity; Weideman Franz law; limitations of free electron theory. 6 hrs. 
 4. Superconductivity : Temperature dependence of electrical conductivity in metals and superconductors; magnetic effects –Meissner effect; type I and type II superconductors; temperature dependence of critical magnetic field; qualitative ideas of BCS theory of superconductivity; high temperature superconductors; application of superconductors –cryotron, superconducting magnets. 6 hrs. 
 5. Cryogenics : Idea of throttle expansion of gases; Joule Thomson experiment, Expression for inversion temperature, Method of production of low temperature- platinum resistance thermometer (theory and construction). 6 hrs. 
 PART –B
 6. Lasers : Spontaneous and stimulated emission of radiation; population inversion; necessary condition for laser action; optical resonator; construction and working of Ruby; -Helium-Neon and semi conducting laser; applications of laser (any two). 5 hrs. 
 7.Optical Fibre: Schematic of optical fibre; total internal reflection; derivation of expression for numerical aperture and acceptance angle; types of optical fibre; loss mechanisms in optical fiber; absorption; attenuation and scattering effects; applications in communication; point to point communication. 5 hrs. 
 8.Holography: Fundamentals of holography, difference between photography and holography, Construction of hologram, recording and reproducing of three dimensional image, applications of holography (any two). 5 hrs. 
 9.Dielectric materials: Definitions of dielectric constants and polarization –different types of polarization – electronic, orientation and ionic –Clausius –Mossetti equation –Ferro electric materials –applications of dielectric materials. 5 hrs. 
 10. Magnetic materials: Definition of magnetization and magnetic susceptibility; diapara, ferro and ferri magnetic materials; qualitative ideas of Langevin theory of dia and para magnetism; soft and hard magnetic material - applications. 5 hrs. 
 11. Liquid Crystal: Classification of liquid crystals –Orientational order intramolecular forces –deformation of the director - magnetic effects –optical properties –applications –LCD. 5 hrs. 
 Question paper pattern: 
 The question paper consists of 8 questions of 20 marks each. The students have to answer 5 full questions, selecting at least two questions from each PART. 
 Reference Books: 
 1. Modern Physics, Kenneth. S. Krane, John Wielyand Sons. 
 2. Solid State Physics, S. O. Pillai, New Age International 
 3. Fundamentals of Physics –Halliday and Resnick, Ninth Edition. 
 4. Material Science, S. L. Kulkarniand K. C. Bhandari, New Age International 
 5. Laser and Non Linear optics: B B Laud 
 Physic for Scientists and Engineers Serwayand Jewett Thomson Book Collections. 
