UVCE Syllabus


 2K11 CI43 : COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND ARCHITECTURE 

 Note :FOUR questions from PART A and FOUR questions from PART B to be set. Students should answer FIVE questions selecting atleast TWO from each PART. For every SIX hours of syllabus ONE question may be set. 

 Hours per Week : 4 Examination Marks 100 Sessional Marks : 25 

 PART –A 

 Unit 1. Introduction: 

 The General Purpose Machine: The general purpose /assembly language programmer?s view, The comput logic designer?s view, Historical perspective,ddigitallogic: Classification of computers and their instructions, Computer instruction sets. 

 Unit 2. Machines, machine languages and Digital logic: 

 Informal description of the simple RISC computer, SRC: Formal description of SRC using register transfer notation, RTN , Description of addressing modes with RTN, Register transfer and logic circuits: from behaviour to hardware. 

 Unit 3. Real Machines: 

 Machine characteristics and Performance, RISC versus CISC microprocessor: The Motorola MC68000, A RISC architecture: The SPARC. 

 Unit 4. Processor Design and Microprogramming: 

 The design Process, A 1-bus micro architecture for the SRC, Data path implementation, Logic design for the 1-bus SRC, The control unit, The 2 and 3-bus processor designs, The machine reset, Machine exceptions, Microprogramming. 

 PART-B 

 Unit 5. Computer Arithmetic: 

 Addition and Subtraction of signed numbers, Design of fast adders, Multiplication of positive numbers, signed operand multiplication ,Fast multiplication, Integer division, Floating point numbers and operations. 

 Unit 6. The Memory Systems: 

 Some basic concepts, Semiconductor RAM memories, Read Only Memories, Speed, Size and cost, Cache Memories, Performance Considerations, Virtual Memories, Memory management requirements. 

 Unit 7. Input and Output: 

 The I/O subsystems, Programmed I/O, I/O interrupts, Direct Memory access, I/O data format change and error control. 

 Unit 8. I/O Organization and Peripheral devices: 

 Buses, Interface circuits, Standard I/O interfaces, Magnetic Disk drives, Display devices, Printers, Input Devices, Interfacing to the analog world. 

 References: 

 1. Vincent P. Heuring and Harry F. Jordan, Computer Systems Design and Architecture, Second edition, Pearson education, Indian Reprint, 2003. 

 2. Carl Hamachar, Zvonko Vranesic, and Safwat Zaky, Computer Organization, fifth edition, McGraw Hill. 

 3. William Stallings, Computer Organization and Architecture, Fourth edition , PHI. 

 4. M. Mano, Computer Architecture, Prentice Hall, Third edition, 2001. 

 5. Hayes, Computer Architecture and Organization, Third edition , TMIL. 

 6. Patierson, Computer Architecture, third edition,PHI