2K11 CI45: FINITE AUTOMATA AND FORMAL LANGUAGES 

 Note : 

 FOUR questions from PART A and FOUR questions from PART B to be set. Students should answer FIVE questions selecting atleast TWO from each PART. For every SIX hours of syllabus ONE question may be set. 

 Hours per Week : 4 Examination Marks 100 Sessional Marks : 25 

 PART-A 

 Unit 1. Introduction To Finite Automata: 

 Introduction to grammars-Production systems, Introduction to Finite Automata; The central concepts of Automata Theory, Deterministic Finite Automata, Nondeterministic Finite Automata 

 Unit 2. Finite Automata, Regular Expressions: 

 An application of Finite Automata; Finite Automata with epsilon –Transitions, regular expressions, Finite automata with Regular Expressions, Applications of regular expressions. 

 Unit 3. Regular Languages, Properties Of Regular Languages: 

 Regular languages; proving languages not to be regular languages; closure properties of regular languages; Decision properties of regular languages; equivalence and minimization of automata. 

 Unit 4. Context-Free Grammars And Languages: 

 Context-free grammars, Parse trees applications; Ambiguity in grammars and languages. 

 PART-B 

 Unit 5. Pushdown Automata: 

 Definition of the Pushdown Automata; Thes andlanguagcfg?Deterministic Pushdown Automata. 

 Unit 6. Properties of Context-Free Languages: 

 Normal forms of CFG?s, the pumping lemma for CFG? 

 Unit 7. Introduction To Turing Machine: 

 Problems that computer cannot solve; the Turing machine; Programming techniques of Turing machines, Extensions to the basic Turing Machines, Turing Machine and Computers. 

 Unit 8. Undecidability: 

 A Language that is not recursively enumerable; correspondence problems; other undecidable problems. 

 References: 

 1. Introduction to Automata: Theory , Languages and Computations- John E.Hoperoft, Rajeev Motwani, Jeffery D. Ullman, 3rd edition, Pearson Education,2007. 

 2. Introduction to Languages and Automat Theory- John C. Martin, 3rd edition, Tata McGraw-Hill,2007. 

 3. Introduction to Formal Languages and Automata- Peter lenz, Narosa Publishing house. 

 4. Fundamentals of theory of computation: Principles and Practice- Raymond Greenlaw, H. James Hoove, Morgan Kitufmann,1998.