Probability and Stochastic Processes 

PART-A 

1. Review of Probability Theory: 
Review of axiomatic approach to probability: Random experiment, Sample space, Events, set theory, Axioms of probability, Properties of probability. Conditional probability: Definition and properties, Product rule, Independent events: Definition and properties. Total probability theorem and Baye’s theorem. 

2. Random Variable Theory: 
Random variable: Definition and meaning of events generated by random variable. 
The probability (Cumulative) distribution function (CDF): Definition and properties. Classification of random variables: Discrete and continuous random variables, 
Probability density (pdf) and mass function (pmf): Definition and properties. Conditional distributions. 

3. Functions of one random variable: 
Meaning of Y = g(X), Distribution function of Y = g(X), density function of Y = g(X) and fundamental theorem. Definition and properties of mean, variance, moment generating function and characteristic function of a random variable, moments of a random variable, Chebyshev inequality. Definition of mean of Y = g(X). 

4. Some examples of Discrete and Continuous distributions: 
Discrete distributions: Binomial, Poisson and Geometric distributions. 
Continuous distributions: Uniform, Exponential, Gaussian, Rayleigh and Weibull distributions Properties, mean, variance and moment generating function of the above distributions. 

5. Multivariate random variables: 
Multivariate random variables Two Random variables. Definition and properties of joint distribution and joint density functions, independence of two random variables, sum of two independent random variables. Joint moments and central moments, mean of random variable Z = g(X, Y). Definition and properties of covariance and correlation of coefficient of two random variables and joint characteristic function. Sequence of Random variables. (Only for reading purpose) Multivariate distribution and density functions, independence of n’ random variables, II D random variables, mean of `n’ random variables, covariance and correlation matrix of `n’ random variables, Central limit theorem. 


PART-B 

6. Reliability Theory: 
Definition and properties of reliability, failure, failure rate. Mean time to failure (MTTF), Mean time between failures. Failure Models: Normal failure law, Exponential failure law and The Weibull failure law. System configurations in reliability: Series, Parallel and standby redundancy. 

7. Introduction to stochastic processes: 
Concept of stochastic processes. Classification of stochastic processes. Deterministic and Nondeterministic processses. Methods of description: Joint distribution, Analytical description, Average values (mean). Autocorrelation, auto covariance and correlation coefficient). Two or more processes: Joint distribution, cross-correlation, cross covariance and cross correlation coefficient. Uncorrelated, orthogonal and independent stochastic processes. Special classes of stochastic processes. Poisson, Wiener, Random telegraph and Random binary processes. 

8. Stationary processes: 
Concept of stationary processes. First order stationary, second order stationary, wide stationary, N-order stationary and strict sense stationary processes. Autocorrelation and power spectral density function of WSS processes. Definition and properties of power spectral density and cross power spectral density of a WSS processes. Time averages and Ergodicity. 

9. Special classes of random processes 
Introduction to Gaussian process and its properties, Band pass Gaussian process, Introduction to Markov sequences and processes and their properties, Gauss-Markov process. 

10. Response of Linear system 
Response of Linear system to random inputs. Linear system fundamentals, Discrete time and continuous time systems. Mean and autocorrelation of the output. Distribution functions, stationarity of the output, and correlation and power spectral density of the output – for both discrete and continuous time systems.