Testing and Commissioning Of Electrical Equipment 

PART A 

1. Transformers 
a) Specifications 
b) Installation : Location and Site selection. Design of Foundation details, code of practice for terminal plates, polarity and phase sequence, oil tanks, drying of windings with and without oil. General inspection. 
c) Commissioning tests : National and international standards, volt-ratio test, earth resistance oil strength. Bucholz and other relays, tap changing gear, fans and pumps, insulation test, impulse test, load and temperature test. 
d) Specific tests : Determination of performance curves like efficiency, regulation etc. and determination of mechanical stress under normal and abnormal conditions. 

2. Synchronous machines 
a) Specifications 
b) Installation : Physical inspection, name plate details, foundation details, alignments excitation systems, cooling and control gear and drying out. 
c) Commissioning tests : Insulation, Resistance measurement of armature and field windings, waveform, telephone interference factors, line charging capacity. 
d) Performance tests : Tests to estimate the performance for generator operations, maximum reactance tests, Sudden short circuit tests, transient and sub-transient parameters, measurements of sequence impedance, capacitive reactance and separation of losses, temperature raise test and retardation tests. 
e) Factory tests: Gap length, magnetic centrity, balancing, vibrations and bearing performance. 


PART B 

3. Induction Machines 
a) Specifications : For different types of motors both for single phase and 3-phase. 
b) Installation : Location of motors, Foundation details, Apparatus, Shaft and alignment, Fitting of pulleys and coupling. Drying of windings. 
c) Commissioning tests : Mechanical tests, Air gap symmetry, Tests for bearings, Vibrations and balancing. 
d) Electrical tests : Insulation test, earth resistance, high voltage test, starting up failures, Routine test, factory test and site test according to ISI code. 

4. Switch and protective devices : 
Standards, Types, specification, installation, commissioning tests, maintenance, schedule, type and routine tests.