2K11 ME 402: Manufacturing Processes – I 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week Examination: 3 Hrs 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Max marks for Examination: 100 

Unit.1 

1. Casting patterns: Functions of patterns, Types of patterns ,and their brief description, pattern allowance. Pattern materials. 3 

2. Sand moulding process and materials: 

Essential features of a sand mould. Description of green sand moulding. Dry-sand moulding core-sand moulding process. Working of moulding machine-Squeezers, Jolting machines. Jolt-Squeeze machine. Composition and properties of Moulding sands and core sands.Sand additives,Sand tests,Moulding materials other than silica sand, 7 

3. Melting practice: 

Introduction to fuels and furnaces, Crucible furnaces, Arc furnaces, open hearth furnace,Induction furnace, Induction furnaces, Convertors,Cupola. Metal refining,inoculation ,Metal handling 5 

4. Special molding and casting processes: Shell molding, investment casting. Permanent mould casting, centrifugal. Pressure die casting. Plaster casting, Slush casting. 5 

5.Solidification of castings:Volumetric shrinkage in castings,Solidificaation of pure metals,Rate of solidification of castings,Solidification of alloys,Grain stracture of cast metals,Solidification shrinkage of alloys,Gases in cast metals,prevention of gas obsorbtion,gas removal. 5 

6. Risering;The reason for risering, Requirement for a riser, Riser size and directional solidification, Riser location and directional solidification, Riser size,Riser feeding distance,Riser treatments,Insulation,Exothermic sleeves,Exothermic riser compounds,Chills and chaplets,padding, 5 

Unit -2 

7.Gating:Gating system,Types of gates,Gating rato,Turbulance in the gating system, Fundamentals of metal flow in gating systems, 4 

8.Casting defects,their origin and control:Surface imperfections,Deffects resulting from incomplete feeding,Gas porosity,Hot tears,cold cracks,warpage,molding defects,unfused chills and chaplets, 3 

9.Cleaning operation of castings and Inspections of castings: Removing the mold materials,Removing gates and risers,Finish cleaning,Magnetic and fluorescent powder inspection,Radiography, The ultosonic reflectoscope, 3 

10. Welding: 

Principles and practice of following welding process. Manual metal arc. TIG, MIG, Submerged arc welding.Friction welding, Gas welding, Resistance welding. Explosive welding,Thermit welding 

11. Metallurgical aspects: 

Structure of welds, Heat Affected Zone, shrinkage and residual stresses in welds, weldability of cast Iron, Low alloy steels, Copper, Aluminum ,Welding defects, inspection and control. 8 

12.Soldering and Brazing: Metallurgy of soldering and brazing, Brazing processes, Soldering processes, 3 

Books for References: 

1. Principles of Metal Casting by Heine and Rosenthal. 

2.ASM-Hand Book,Foundry. 

3.Foundry Engineering; Taylor, Flemings, Wulff 

4.Foundry technology.N.Lakshmana Swamy. 

5.Welding Technology by N.K. Srinivasan 

6.Welding Hand book.AWS 8THEdition. 

Scheme of Examination: E

xaminers to set a total of eight questions as follows: 

Four questions each from Units I and II 

Students are to answer a total of five questions, choosing at least one from each Unit.