2K11 ME 306 Machine Drawing (In First Angle Projection) 

Class : 3 Hours/Week Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 4 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

Non – Examination Unit: 

B.I.S. Codes in Machine Drawing, Dimensioning, Indication of Tolerances, fits, surface Texture symbols, conventional representation of screw threads, construction of nut and bolt, studs, machine parts not 

sectioned materials in section, different types of keys, welding symbols. 6 

Examination Unit: 

UNIT I 

(To set 2 questions i.e. One on Developments and ONE on conversion of views and student to answer any ONE question of 20 marks) 

Development of lateral surfaces: 

Development of lateral surfaces of right regular prisms, pyramids, cones, cylinders and when truncated and with through holes. Development of transition pieces. 

Conversion of Views: Drawing orthographic views and sectional views from given isometric view of simple machine parts 15 

UNIT II 

(To set 2 questions and student to answer ONE question of 20 Marks) 

Drawing only the front view of the assembly in section/half section, when details of individual parts are given, for the following items: 

1. Cotter Joints 

2. Pin or Knuckle Joints 

3. Split Muff Coupling 

4. Flanged couplings 

5. Compression Coupling 

6. Bush Type Flexible Coupling 

7. Universal Coupling 15 

UNIT III 

(To Set ONE question of 60 marks, to be answered compulsory) 

Drawing the 3 principal views of the assembly, of which one or two views in section/half section, when the details of individuals parts are given, for the following items: 

1. Screw Jack 

2. Stop Valve 

3. Plummer Block 

4. Split Sheave Eccentric 

5. Gland and Stuffing Box Expansion Joint 

6. Feed Check Valve 

7. Swivel Bearing 

8. Machine Vice 

9. Rams bottom safety Valve. 

10. Tailstock of Lathe 

11. Tool Head of a Shaper 

12. Cross Head of a Vertical Steam Engine 24 

TEXT BOOKS: 

1. Machine Drawing: K.R.Gopala Krishna 

2. Machine Drawing : N.D. Bhatt.