2K11ME602 Machine Design –II 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 3 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

UNIT - I 

1. FLY WHEELS: Analysis and Design of flywheel for engines and punching press, consideration of stresses in rims and arms. 6 

2. FLEXIBLE MACHINE ELEMENTS: Design and selection of flexible machine elements. 

Belt Drives- design of belt drives – calculation of the length of the belt, Number of piles and width of the belt – standard, flat and V-belt sections, V Belts-cross section-section procedure of V belts- pulley details for both flat and V belts-Ribbed V belts.8 

Rope Drives- design and application of rope drives, wire ropes and pulleys-elevator and hoists-fatigue life of wire ropes.5 

Chain drives- selection procedure of transimission chains and sprockets for various application-link chains and pulleys-silent chains.5 

3. DESIGN OF SPRINGS: Springs-Types of springs-leaf,-helical, -disc or Belleville and concentric torsion springs-Uses of springs- Belleville springs,-Helical spring of different cross sections-combination of springs. Design of helical spring-compression and tension,-fatigue surge elimination- design of leaf springs.6 

UNIT -II 

4. DESIGN OF BEARINGS : Types of bearing, lubrication and types of sliding lubrication. Properties of oil and equation of flow: Introduction, viscosity, the Hagen – poiseuille law, flow between parallel stationery planes, viscosity - temperature relationship. Influence of pressure on viscosity and density – problems.4 

Hydrostatic lubrication: Introduction, Hydrostatic step bearings, Hydro static journal bearings, and pivoted pad thrust bearings, oil lifts – problems. 4 

Rolling contact bearings: Types of rolling contact bearings- applications- selection based on dynamic capacity, equation and different reliabilities, selection for variable loads and speeds- Radial bearing; Axial bearing-selection of bearing- Deep groove ball bearing, roller bearings, angular contact bearings. 4 

5. DESIGN OF GEARS: 

Spur and helical gears: Introduction to transmission elements-positive drivers and friction drives; gear drives-standard modules and various proportions-design of spur and helical gears based on contact stress and beam strength – based on Lewis and Buckingham equation, dynamic effects- check for wear and endurance strength-Gear Materials. 10 Bevel and worm gears:Bevel gears-Nomenclature-design based on contact strength and beam strength-based on Lewis and Buckingham. Worm and worm wheel-Nomenclature-design procedure-efficiency and thermal considerations in worm gears. Introduction to Multi-speed Gear Box and Speed Reducers.8

 

Text Books: 

1. Joseph Edward Shigley and Charles, R. Mischke, ?Mechanical Engineering Design?. McGraw Hill International Edition, 2000

 

2. S.G. Kulakarni, ?Machine Design – solved problems ?Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd., 1998.

 

3. William orthein, ?Machine Component Design (vol.I and II)?, M/s. Jaico publishing 1998-99.

 

4. T.V. Sundarajamoorthy and N. Shanmugum, ?Machine design?, Khanna Publishers,Delhi-6.

 

Books for Refernce: 1. Gitan M. Maitra and L.N. Prasad, ?Hand Book of Mechanical Design?, Tata McGraw Hill 1985.

 2. V.B. Bhandari, ?Design of Machine Elements?, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd, 1998.

 3. Prabhu T.J., ?Fundamentals of Machine Design?, Madras Book House, Chennai.

 4. Panday and Shah ?Machine Design?.

 5. Design Data Books.

 

Scheme of Examination: Examiner to set four questions from each Unit. 

Students are to answer any five full questions choosing at least two questions from each unit.