2K11CE503 ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING –I 

Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours 

Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 

Max Marks: 100 

1.Importance of water and water supply schemes. (2 Hrs.) 

2.Water demand: Types per capita demand, factors affecting per capita demand, variation in demand, design period, population forecasting method, and numerical problems. (6 Hrs.) 

3.Sources: types of sources, quality and quantity, aspects, selection of sources. (4 Hrs.) 

4.Intakes: Definition, location selection, types of intakes. (2 Hrs.) 

5.Quality: Characteristics water borne diseases, water quality standards. (4 Hrs.) 

6.Purification of water. (2 Hrs.) 

7.Screens: Types, Design problems. (3 Hrs.) 

8.Sedimentation: Theory of Sedimentation, Sedimentation tanks, Plain Sedimentation. Sedimentation aided with coagulation: coagulants, coagulation, flocculation, and estimation of optimum dose of coagulant, flash mixers, flocculaters, calrifloccoulaters and design of Sedimentation tanks. (9 Hrs.) 

9.Filtration, Theory of filtration, types of filters. Types of under drainage system, design of filters.(6 Hrs.) 

10.Disinfection, theory, methods. Chlorination and numerical problems. (4 Hrs.) 

11.Miscellaneous treatment units: Aeration. Softening, fluoridation, Deflouridation Iron andmanganese removal, domestic methods of treating water supplies etc. (8 Hrs.) 

12.Transmission-conduits, materials, joint, appurtenances. (4 Hrs.) 

13.Distribution: distribution networks, appurtenances, methods of distribution, systems of supply,Corrosion of pipes and its control, design of distribution networks, computer applications inwater distribution systems. (6 Hrs.) 

Question paper Pattern: 

Question paper consists of EIGHT main questions covering all chapters. The students required to answer ANY FIVE Main questions. Each main question should carry 20 marks. 

Reference Books: 

1.S K Garg “Environmental Engineering. Vol. 1 (wate 

2.B C Punmia Ashok jainandArun Jain: “Environmental Laxmi publications (p) Ltd. New Delhi. 

3.T. J. McGhee “WaterthEditionsupply-,McGraw -Hillandpublicationssewerage”. 6 

4.Hammer and Hammer; “Water and waste Water Technol 

5.Howard S peavey, Donald R Rowe and George TehoMcGraw-Hill International edition.