
2K11CE504 TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING –I 

Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours 

Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 

Max Marks: 100 

1.Modes of Transportation: Operating and Technological Characteristics of different modes of transport: overview of major transportation systems: principles of co-ordination and operational controls, elements in urban transit systems example of unconventional transport systems, characteristics of road, transport and scope of highway engineering. –8 Hrs. 

4.Highway Development and Planning: Highway development in India, Necessity of highway planning,classification of roads, road patterns, planning surveys, preparation of plans, interpretation of planning surveys, preparation and phasing of master plans, Highway planning in India, various plans, problems.–10 Hrs. 

3.Highway Alignment and Survey: Highway alignment, engineering surveys for highway location, drawings and report, highway project –new and realignment -8 Hrs. 

4.Geometric Design: Design factors, Highway Cross section elements–Pavement surface characteristics,camber, width requirements. Sight distance requirements, stopping and overtaking sight distance, Design of horizontal alignment, design speed, radius, super elevation, extra widening of pavement, transition curves, setback distance. Design of vertical alignment, gradients, Summit and valley curves, problems on above. 14 Hrs. 

5.Traffic Characteristics: Human factors and driver reaction time, vehicle factors, Objects, basic principles and applications of traffic studies; Traffic regulation and control.10 Hrs. 

6.Highway Economics: Road user cost and benefits of transport projects, time horizon in economic assessment, principles of economic evaluation, methods of economic evaluation –Annual cost, Benefit – Cost ratio and Internal Rate of return methods, problems on the above, Highway Finance –different approaches. - 10 Hrs. 

Question paper pattern: 

Answer any five of the eight main questions, to be set covering the entire syllabus. Each question should carry 20 marks. 

Reference Books:

 1. Khanna, S.K. and Justo, C.E.G., `Highway Eng2002 (text book) 

 2. Kadiyali, L.R., `Highway Engineering’, Khanna

 3. Khanna and Justo, `Highway Material Testing’, 

 4. Rao G.V., `Principles of Transportation and H 1996 

 5. William Hay, Introduction to Transportation Engineering, McGraw Hill Pub. Co. 

