2K11CIL 76 : INTERNET PROGRAMMING LABORATORY 

(Programming/Mini Project Laboratory) 

Hours per Week : 3 Examination Marks : 100 Sessional Marks : 50 

PART A 

Develop and execute the following programs using HTML and PHP. Create Database using MYSQL wherever necessary. 

1. a) Program to display various Server Information like – Server Name, Server Software, Server protocol, CGI Revision etc. 

b) Program to accept UNIX command from a HTML form and to display the output of the command executed. 

2. a) Program to accept the User Name and display a greeting message. 

b) Program to keep track of the number of visitors, visited the web page and display the counter with proper headings. 

3. Program to display a greeting based on the access time of the Web server. Also to verify whether the webmaster is currently logged in. 

4. Program to display a digital clock which displays the current time of the server. 

5. Program to display the current contents of the table in a database. 

6. Program to insert new name and age information entered by the user into the database. 

7. Program to query the database and to display the result on a web page. 

8. Program to accept book information viz. Accession number, title, authors, edition and publication from a web page and to store those in a database. 

9. Program to search a book for a title given by the user on a web page and display the search results with proper headings. 

Develop and execute the following programs using HTML and JAVA Servlets. 

10. a) Program to accept user name and display a greeting message. 

b) Program to change the background color of the page based on the color selected by the user. 

11. Program to display a greeting based on the access time of the server. 

12. Program to create and display a cookie. 

13. Program to create a session and display session information viz. session ID, creation time and last accessed. 

14. Program to request server information viz. Request Method, URI, Protocol and Remote address. 

15. Program to accept User name and address and display them in a web page by passing parameters. 

PART B 

The Student should Develop an integrated Mini project to demonstrate their skills in JAVA, CGI, PERL, HTML, XML, etc. based on Internet Applications. 

Note : 

The evaluation is based on Execution of any one program from PART A and demonstration of Mini Project. The student has to submit a report to the examiner.