2K11CE802 ESTIMATION, SPECIFICATION COSTING and ECONOMICS

 

Hours / Week: 4 

Exam: 3 Hours 

Total: 60 hours 

Class Marks: 25 

Max Marks: 100 

1.Estimating: Method of taking out quantities and working out costs of Civil Engineering works such as building (Long wall, short wall and centre line method), R.C.C. structures, culverts, roads, small bridges, septic tank, water storage tank, scooter parking shed.(30 Hrs.) 

2.Specification: Drawing up of detailed specifications for several materials of construction such as sand, jelly, cement, brick masonry, stone masonry, flooring works (red oxide, mosaic, marble and granite flooring). R.C.C. plastering, water supply, Under ground drainage lines, revetment to earthen bund.(08 Hrs.) 

3.Working out Data Rates: Rates for various works in the estimate such as masonry concrete, R.C.C. works (Which includes RCC beam, Column with footing and roof slab), Mangalore tile roof, road work, plastering painting, water supply and drainage work. (08 Hrs.) 

4. Departmental procedures: Sanctioned estimate, modified estimate, revised estimate, administrative sanction, technical sanction, organisation of P.W.D., NHAI, KRRDA, KRDCL, KSHIP, Original works, repair works, types of estimates, work charges establishment, imprest amount, contingencies tools and plant account, materials at site account. Methods of executing works, contract, tender, earnest money deposit. Security deposit, suspense account, task work, stock taking, cashbook, schedule of rates and measurement book.(08 Hrs.) 

5. Use of computer programme in preparation of estimate and bill of quantities.(06 Hrs.) 

Question Paper Pattern: 

Set 2 Question from Part A, 5 question from Part B. Question any one from Part A and any 3 from Part B. 

Reference Books: 1.Estimating and costing in civil Engineering, theory and practice --- B. N. Dutta

 2.Constructing planning, equipments and methods --- R. L. PEURIFEY

 3.Text book of estimating and costing --- G. S. Birdi

