2K11CE303 BUILDING MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION 

Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours 

Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 

Max Marks: 100 

PART –A 

1.STONES: Classification, Quarrying, Characteristics and uses of stones (6 Hrs.) 

2.BRICKS: Composition of good brick earth, manufacture of bricks, Quality of good bricks, Tests on bricks, Different types of Bricks, comparison of Brickwork with stonework (6 Hrs.) 

3.CEMENT: Composition of cement, manufacture of cement, properties and types of cement, Laboratory tests for cement, varieties and uses of cement (6 Hrs.) 

4.CEMENT MORTAR AND CONCRETE: Grades and properties of cement mortar and cement concrete, Ingredients and their properties type and uses of cement mortar and cement concrete. (6 Hrs.) 

5.TIMBER: Commercial forms of Timber, seasoning of timber, Preservation of timber, uses of timber in construction industry. (6 Hrs.) 

PART –B 

FOUNDATIONS: Components of a building, SBC of soil, Functions and requirements of Foundation, Classification of foundations (show and deep foundations) Designs of foundations (Isolated and combined) (8 Hrs.) 

MASONRY: Definition of terms used in masonry, Classification of stone masonry different patterns of Bonding Brick. Composite masonry, lintels, pointing and plastering on masonry, painting on wood, steel and cement surfacein buildings.(4 Hrs.) 

STAIRS: Functions, requirements and type of stairs. (4 Hrs.) 

ROOFS AND FLOORS: Different types of roofs and roof covering materials, different types of flooring material and floor finishers for different types of buildings. (4 Hrs.) 

DOORS AND WINDOWS: functions, location and types of doors and windows. (6 Hrs.) 

Question Paper Pattern: 

Eight Questions should be set, four each from part - A and B students should answer five full questions selecting at least two questions from each part. All main questions carry 20 marks each. 

Reference Books: 1.Building Construction by Rangawala 2.Building Construction by susheel Kumar. 3.Engineering Materials by Susheel Kumar 4.Building construction by Bl.C. Punmia