2K11 ME 701 AUTOMATION IN MANUFACTURING 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 3 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

PART-A 

1. Automation-Definition, Reasons, Arguments for and against Automation. Production Operations and Automation strategies-Manufacturing Industries, Types of Production, Functions in Manufacturing, Information Processing in Manufacturing, Plant layout, Production concepts and Mathematical models, Automation Strategies, Problems. 

2. Automation and Control strategies, Basic elements of Automated system-Power to Accomplish the Automated process, Program of Instructions, Control system, Advanced Automation Functions-Safety monitoring, Maintenance and Repair diagnostics, Error Detection and Recovery, Level of Automation, Sensors, Actuators and other Control System components. 10 

3. Automated Material Handling and Storage system, Principles of Material Handling, Equipments, Automated Guided Vehicle systems-Components, Types, Guidance, Routing, Steering, Control, Loading, System design, Advantage and Applications. Automated Storage and Retrieval systems- Definition of ASRS, functions, components, Types and Design of ASRS, Distributed Control structure for AGVs and ASRS, Conveyors, Problems. 12 

PART-B 

4. Discrete Control using Programmable Logic Controllers and Personal Computers-Discrete Process Control- Logic Control and Sequencing, Ladder Logic Diagrams, Programmable Logic Controller- Components of PLC, operating cycle, Capabilities and Programming PLC, Problems. 10 

5. Pneumatic and Electro Pneumatics in Automation, Industrial Prime movers, Basics of Pneumatics, Compressed Air-generation and Contamination control, Pneumatic Actuators, Pneumatic Valves and Control Circuits. Building of Pneumatic Circuits for typical Automation applications. 10 

PART-C 

6. Electro Pneumatics-Integration of Technologies, Solenoid valves, Control Devices-Switches, Push button, Relays, Sensors. Time delay relays (Timers), Electro Pneumatic multiple actuator circuits. Interfacing with PLC, Building of Electro pneumatic circuits for typical Automation applications. 10 

Text Books 

9. Mikell P Groover- Automation, Production systems and Computer Integrated Manufacturing, PHI Publishers 2002 and 1997. 

10. Nanua Singh-Systems Approach to Computer Integrated Design and Manufacturing, John Wiley and Sons. Inc, New York 1996. 

11. Joji P.-Pneumatic Controls. Wiley India Pvt Ltd edition 2008. 

References 

1. Ackermann et al., Programmable logic controllers –Advanced level, Festo Didactic KG, 1991 

2. American Society of tool and manufacturing engineers, Michigan, Pneumatic controls for industrial applications, 1965. 

3. J.R. Hackworth and F.D. Hackworth, Jr., Programmable logic controllers-Programming methods and applications, Pearson Education, Pentice hall. 

4. Programming and Applications of Allen Bradely PLCs, Course material of Apex High-Tech Institute, Bangalore. 

Scheme of Examination: 

Examiners to set Three Questions in Part-A and Part-B, Two Questions in Part-C 

Students are to answer Five full questions choosing at least One full question from each Part.