2K11 ME 707: DESIGN LABORATORY – II 

Class: 3 Hrs / week Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 3 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

UNIT- I 

I. Photo Elasticity Experiments: 

Calibration of photoelastic model material by using circular disc under diametrical compression. Calibration of photoelastic model material by using a beam subjected to pure bending. Determination of stress concentration factor in a plate with circular hole under tension. 

Determination of contact stress and sub surface shear stress in a circular cutout subjected to uniaxial tensile load. 

Determination of stress concentration factor in plate with circular cutout under transverse bending. 

II. Strain Gauge Experiments: 

Determination of stress concentration factors in a plate with a circular cut out under uniaxial tensile load using strain gauges. 

Determination of magnitudes and directions of a principal stress, principal strain, maximum shear stress and maximum shear strain using strain rosettes. 

Study of Pressure distribution and coefficient of friction in journal bearing. 

Study of pressure distribution and coefficient of friction in slider bearing. 

Study of wear resistance of engineering materials using pin on disc apparatus. 

Experiments on four ball tester for testing lubricating oil. 

UNIT- II 

III. Study of Finite Element Analysis package (ANSYS) 

Static Finite Element Analysis of: 

i) Bars, Trusses and Beams. 

ii) Plane Stress and Plain Strain problems. 

iii) Axis – Symmetric Problems. 

iv) Solids (3 – Dimensional) 

v)Simple problems on one-dimensional heat transfer. 

Books for Reference: 

1. Experimental stress Analysis – L.S. Srinath, M.R. Raghavan, K. Lingaiah, 

i. G. Ganesha, K. Ramachandra and B. Pant. 

2. Experimental stress Analysis – Dally and Riley. 

3. Lubrication of Bearings by Radzimovsky. 

4. Principles and applications of Tribology by Moore. 

5. Strain Gauge by primer. 

6. Introduction to FEM – T. Chandrupatla. And Belagundu 

Scheme for Examination: 

One experiment in Unit I 40 

One experiment in Unit II 40 

Viva-voce 20