2K11 ME 704 THEORY OF I.C. ENGINES 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 3 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

Part A 

1. Air Standard Cycles: air standard efficiency and - mep of otto cycle – diesel cycle – dual combustion cycle numerical problems - deviation of real cycle from theoretical air cycle, numerical problems. 8 

2. Combustion of Fuels: theoretical air required, excess air actual air required for complete combustion of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels - numerical problem - analysis of products of combustion. 8 

3. Performance and Testing of IC Engines: Introduction: Indicated power - Brake power - Various I.C. engine efficiencies - Specific fuel consumption - Heat balance sheet Measurement of IP of IC engines - Performance curves for SI engines - Variables effecting engine performance - Power requirement and power available curve problems. 8 

Part B 

4. Combustion in I.C Engines; Four stoke and two stroke cycle engines - Valve time diagram for four stoke engine combustion in SI Engines - detonation (KNOCK) in SI engines - variable affecting knock in SI Engines and their effects - methods to reduce detonation - combustion in CI engines - Knock in the CI engine – effect of engine variables on diesel knock and methods to reduce diesel knock rating of SI and CI engine fuels. 12 

5. I.C Engine systems: carburetion - simple and complex carburetor - fuel pump for S.I engine - ignition systems for SI engines - fuel injection system for CI engine - Supercharging of IC engines - Cooling of IC engines - Governing of IC engines - Introduction to wrankle engine, Introduction to MPF engine.12 

PART C 

6. Alternative fuels for I.C. Engines: Introduction, Engine performance with pure alcohols, alcohol and gasoline fuel blends, alcohols, Vegetable oils and Biogas as diesel fuel, Hydrogen- as fuel, Modification to IC engine, Performance and Emission. 8 

7. Air pollution : Introduction, pollutant from gasoline engines, gasoline emission control, diesel emission, diesel smoke and control, diesel odour and control, comparison of diesel and gasoline emissions control. 4 

Book of Reference: 

1. Thermal Engineering by Kodandaram, Dhanapat Rai and Co. New Delhi. 

2. Thermal Engineering by Rajput R.K, Laxmi publications, New Delhi. 

3. A Course in I.C. Engines by Mathur andSharma, Dhanpat Rai publications. 

4. Thermal Engineering by S.K. Kulshresta, Vikas publications. 

5. I.C. Engines by V.Ganeshan.vol.1 vol.2. 

6. I.C. Engines Fundamentals, TATA Mc. Grawhill, John.B. Heywood. 

Scheme of Examination: 

Questions to be set: 3 questions from part A 

3 questions from part B 

2 questions from part C 

Students are to answer 5 questions choosing at least 1 questions from each Part.