2K11ME 801 CAD/CAM AND ROBOTICS 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week Internal Assessment Marks : 25 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Max marks for Examination: 100 

PART-A 

1. Introduction to CAD, CAM, CAD/CAM, Manufacturing data base, Application of Computers in Design and Manufacturing activities. Product Life cycle in Conventional and Computerized Manufacturing Environment. CAD/CAM Hardware and Software. 8 

2. Geometric Modeling-Wire frame, Surface and Solid modeling, Transformation of 2D and 3D Geometric models-Translation, Scaling, Rotation, Homogeneous Representation and Concatenation of Geometric Transformations. Problems. 12 

PART-B 

3. NC, CNC and DNC – working of NC/CNC machines, classification, Design features of CNC machine tool, Machining centre, Turning centre, Axes definition of NC systems, Part Programming – G and M codes, Punched tape Preparation as per EIA and ISO Code formats, APT language, DNC – configuration, types, advantages, Adaptive control. Problems. 12 

4. Group Technology and Cellular manufacturing systems–Group Technology Implementation, Part family formation, Selection of classification and coding systems, Design of Cellular manufacturing, Cell formation approaches. Computer Aided Process Planning-Approaches, Varient, Generative Knowledge based Process planning, Feature recognition in CAPP. Problems. 8 

PART-C 

5. Robotics Technology – Definition, Anatomy, Robot Control Systems, Resolution Accuracy and Repeatability, Specification, Problems. 4 

6. Classification and Structure of Robotic systems, Point to Point and continuous path systems, Control loops of Robotic systems, The manufacturers – Cartesian ,cylindrical, spherical, jointed, and SCARA. Drives and Control Systems Problems. 4 

7. Kinematic Analysis and Coordinate Transformation – Direct and Indirect Kinematics Problems. Geometry based direct Kinematic Analysis coordinate and vector transformations using materials, Denavit – Hartenberg convention, problems. 4 

8. Robot end effectors – Grippers and Tools, Mechanical and Other types of grippers. Robot Programming, Sensors in Robotics, Robot applications, problems. 4 

9. Machine Vision-Components and Working of Machine Vision system for typical Industrial Robot application. 4 

Text Books: 

1. Automation, Production Systems and Computer Integrated Manufacturing – Mikell P. Groover pub: PMI, New Delhi (1997). 

2. Systems Approach to Computer Integrated Manufacturing – Nanua Singh Pub: John Wiley and Sons. 

3. Industrial Robotics: Technology, Programming and Applications – Mikell P. Groover, Mitchell Weiss, etal. Pub: Mc Grow Hill International Ed. (1988). 

4. CAD/CAM Principles and Applications-P.N. Rao. Pub: Tata McGraw Hill. 

Reference: 

1.Robotics for Engineers – Yoran Koren. Pub: McGraw Hill International Editions (1987). 

2. Numerical Control Machines and Computer Aided Manufacturing.-Kunder, Tewari, Rao. Pub: Tata McGraw Hill. 

3. Robots and Manufacturing Automation – C Ray Pub: John Wiley and sons. 

Scheme of Examination: Examiners to set Two Questions in Part-A, Three Questions in Part-B and Part-C. 

Students are to answer Five full questions choosing at least One full question from each Part.