2K11ME 804 TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT 

Lecture: 4 Hrs / week 

Total No. of Hours: 60 Internal Assessment Marks: 25 

Examination: 3 Hrs Max marks for Examination: 100 

UNIT I 

1. Introduction to TQM: The TQM axioms, Consequences of total quality, Costs of total quality, Tools for total quality. 4 

2. The Deeming Approach to Management: Historical background, Deming’s 14 principles, Implementing Deming’s Philosophy. 2 

3. Juran’s Approach to Quality: Developing quality, Quality trilogy, and Universal breakthrough sequence. 2 

4. Crosby’s Approach to Quality: Diagnosis of a troubles company, Quality vaccine, Absolutes for quality management, fourteen steps for quality improvement management. 

5.The concept of kaizen: kaizen and innovation, Kaizen Management practices. 2 

6. Technical Tools for Quality: Techniques for general use, Bar chart, Brain storming, Cause and effect analysis, QFD, Pareto analysis, cost benefit analysis, customer supplier relationship checklist, quality costing. 10 

7. Technical Tools for Quality: Techniques for quality control, Introduction, Data collection plan variable control chart (X and R) Process capability studies. 5 

UNIT II 

8. Attributes Control Chart: P and nP, C and U control charts, interpreting the control charts and their applications, case studies and problems 5 

9. Aspects of Specification and Tolerance: statistical tolerance, precision predictability and accuracy. Probability distributions problems 10 

10. Acceptance Sampling: Fundamental concepts, discrete and continuous distribution, OC curves, AQL, LTPD, AOQL Sampling plans, Single, Double and multiple sampling plans. 10 

UNIT III 

11. Reliability: Definition, MTBF, Failure rate and reliability, calculation, reliability improvement, redundancy, reliability testing. 5 

12. ISO 9000: Introduction, standards, benefits of ISO. 5 

Books for Reference: 

1. Managing for total quality - from Deeming to Taguchi’s and SPC By N. Logothetis, PHI-EEE. 

2. Statistical Quality Control - Eugene L, Grant and Richard S. Leaven worth Mc. Grew Hill. 

3. TQM and ISO 14000 - Dr. K.C. Arora, S.K. Kataria and Sons 

4. Total Quality Management - Hohn S. Oakland, Heinmann Professional Publishing. 

5. Total Quality Management- Besterfield, Pearson’s Pub. 

Scheme of Examination: 

Examiners are to set Three questions from each of Unit-I and Unit-II and Two questions from Unit-III. Students to answer Five full questions choosing Two from Unit-I and Unit-II One from Unit-III.