

 

 2K11CE402 CONCRETE TECHNOLOGY 

 Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours 

 Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 

 Max Marks: 100

 1. Concrete : application of concrete, Constituents of Concrete, function of Constituents in concrete preparation, Transportation placing Compaction and curing of concrete. (10 Hrs.) 

 2. Form work : Form work for concrete, Materials for form work, requirements of good form work, types of form work (8 Hrs.) 

 3. Fresh concrete : properties of fresh concrete, workability and consistency; measure of workability, factors influencing the workability, deficiencies in fresh concrete, bleeding and segregation, causes and remedies. (10 hrs.) 

 4. hardened concrete : Process of setting and Hardening of concrete, strength properties of hardened concrete, factors influencing the strength properties and elastic properties hardened concrete, mechanism of shrinkage and creep in hardened concrete. Factors influencing shrinkage and creep. (10 Hrs.) 

 5. Mix design : Different grades of concrete, method of mix, design, detailed procedure of Indian standard method of mix design. (8 Hrs.) 

 6. Ready mix concrete : Concept of Ready mix concrete, Merit and demerits of ready mix concrete, Production and supply of ready mix concrete. (5 Hrs.) 

 7. Durability / Serviceability of concrete : Definition, Factors affecting durability. (4 Hrs.) 

 8. Introduction to Special concrete : Types, high strength concrete, Permeability and fire resistance aspects. (5 Hrs.) 

 

 Question Paper Pattern: Eight Questions should be set in which one is compulsory question covering all the Chapters. Students should answer the compulsory question and any other four full questions. All the main questions carry 20 marks each. 

 

 Reference Books: 

 1. Properties of concrete by Naville

 2. Concrete technology by R.S. Varshney

 3. Concrete technology by M.S Shetty. 

 4. Concrete technology by Kulkarni

 5. Concrete technology by Vol. I and Vol. II, Orchard. 

