

 

 2K11CE404 SURVEYING THEORY –II 

 Hours / Week: 4 Exam: 3 Hours 

 Total: 60 hours Class Marks: 25 

 Max Marks: 100

 1. Theodolite : Introduction, parts of theodolite, definition of terms, fundamental lines of theodolite, temporary adjustments. Repetition and reiteration methods of measurements of horizontal angles, measurement of vertical angles, sources of errors in the theodolite work Traversing with theodolite, Trigonometric leveling, single plane and double plane method, problems. (14 Hrs.) 

 2. Tacheometry : Introduction, Tacheometer features, different systems of tacheometric measurements, tacheometric constants and its determination. Distance and elevation formulae derivations for horizontal and inclined sights. Anallactic lens, problems, subtenses method. Vertical base and horizontal base substance method. Vertical base and horizontal base subtense measurement. (08 Hrs.) 

 3. Curve surveying : Introduction, Definitions of terms designation, types of curves setting out simple circular curves, tape method, rankines method of deflection angle using theodolite. Setting of curves when point of intersection, point of tangency and point of curve are inaccessible. Elements of compound and reverse curves, different cases, setting out, Vertical curves - definition, importance problems. (14 Hrs.) 

 4. Triangulation : Introduction, classification, triangulation figures. Selection of triangulation station. Intervisibility and height of stations, selection of site for base line, base line measurement. Various corrections form measured length, problems. Satellite station, reduction to centre problems.Introductory to triangulation.(08 Hrs.) 

 5. Total station and its application : Introduction, theory, working principle, component part, methods of measurement - Angle, distance (08 Hrs.) 

 6. Theory of errors and adjustments : Introduction, Types of error, laws of weights, station adjustment, figure adjustment, problems. (08 Hrs.) 

 

 Question paper Pattern: 

 Total eight questions should be set

 Two Questions each from First and Third Chapters. One question each 2nd, 4th, 5th and 6th 

 chapters. All Questions carry equal marks (i.e., 20 each) 

 

 Reference Books: 

 1. PUNMIA. B.C., Surveying Vol. 2 and 3, Standard Book House, New Delhi. 

 2. ARORA. K. R, Surveying Vol. 2 and 3, standard Book House, New Delhi. 

 3. Duggal, Surveying Vol. 1 and 2, Tata McGraw Hill Publications Co. ltd. 

