Analog Electronic Circuits 

PART A 

1. Fundamentals of CRO: 
Functional description of CRT, Focusing with electric and magnetic fields. Deflection mechanism and synchronization, Block diagram of CRO and description(Qualitative treatment only). 

2. Diode and Diode circuits and linear wave shaping: 
Derivation of equations for PN junction current,Diode Junction capacitance-Ideal and practical diodes ,equivalent circuits of a diode. Diode circuits. FW bridge rectifier with C and LC filters-Design calculations-Voltage multiplier-Diode clippers and clampers. Special purpose diodes:breakdown in PN junctions-Zener ,varactor,Tunnel,Schottkey and photo diodes and characteristics and applications. RC,RL and RLC circuits response to step pulse and ramp pulse and ramp inputs. 

3. BJT Biasing and AC models: 
Ebers-moll model-Transistor rating,basic CE amplifier –load line,operating point-stabilization of operating point-biasing circuits and analysis.AC models:Small signal LF and HF-Hybrid models and Analysis. 

4. BJT Amplifiers: 
a)Voltage amplifiers-CE amplifier analysis-Cascaded stage-types of coupling-frequency response –effect of coupling ,bypass and devices capacitance. 
b)Emitter Follower-CC amplifier, Darlington and Bootstrap circuits and analysis. Power amplifier(BJT)-Classification of large signal amplifiers, concept of AC load line analysis with respect to efficiency, Linearity and harmonic distortions of class A, class B and Class AB push-pull amplifier-Complementary symmetry circuits. 


PART-B 

5. FET amplifiers: 
FET biasing, low frequency equivalent circuit. Analysis of common source and common drain amplifiers. Construction and Characteristics of Enhancement and Depletion type of MOSFETs. 

6. Feedback Amplifiers using BJT only: 
Types of feedback-their advantages and disadvantages. Effect of feedback on frequency response and impedance. Qualitative ananlysis of voltage-series, voltage-shunt, current-series and current shunt feedback amplifiers. 

7. Tuned Amplifiers: 
Introduction, Analysis and design of single tuned amplifiers, double tuned and stagger tuned amplifiers. Analysis of class-C tuned amplifier, Q factor, Frequency translators and mixers. 

8. DC and Difference amplifiers: 
DC amplifier, Analysis of emitter coupled differential amplifiers, Different modes of operation, FET differential amplifiers.